## Analysis of flash glucose monitoring data in patients with diabetes mellitus

Authors:
- Lidia Karpovich
- Georgie Sazykin
- Tatyana Chudnovets
- Sergey Yarovoy

### Introduction
Type 1 diabetes is a condition caused by autoimmune damage of the insulin producing b-cells of the pancreatic islets, usually leading to severe endogenous insulin deficiency [1]. Type 1 diabetes is not the most common variant of diabetes, it accounts up to approximately 5–10% of all cases of diabetes. But it creates a serious problem for public health system because it develops in young people and adolescents, leading to early progress of serious complications, and patients need regular insulin replacement therapy.
Daily self-monitoring of glycemic levels to calculate insulin doses leads to a decrease in patients’ quality of life. Recent years there have been made significant advances in glucose and insulin monitoring, including the development of continuous glucose monitoring devices [2]. They help people with type 1 diabetes to achieve the target glycemic level, as well as to avoid acute complications of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia [3]. Some tools, such as intermittently scanned continuous glucose monitoring, would also decrease the cost of self-monitoring [4].
This project was performed to analyze the clinical data of continuous flash monitoring of glycemia using the FreeStyle Libre device in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 

### Materials and methods.
Сlinical and demographic (gender, age, diabetes complications, target level of glycated hemoglobin, type of insulin therapy) data and results of the FreeLibre Steele sensor (glycemic categories, time spent in hypo- and hyperglycemia, number of scans and time sensor performance) were collected from 624 patients. The study was conducted at the Moscow Regional Research Clinical Institute named after. M.F. Vladimirsky from November 2022 to October 2023. The main analysis was performed by processing data during the operation of the last sensor for each patient. The results of patients at the beginning of inclusion in the study, one month and 6 months after the start of the study were also analyzed.
A t-test was used to determine the representativeness of the sample of patients with completed data and comparisons between age groups. To compare age groups, the Welch test was used. 	To analyze the association between age, gender, sensor operating time and number of scans with carbohydrate metabolism parameters a linear regression model was applied. Analysis of associations between the presence of complications of diabetes and indicators of carbohydrate metabolism was carried out using the Mann-Whitney test and Spearman correlation. The association between sensor operating time and number of scans with clinical and demographic data was assessed using one-way ANOVA. If necessary, corrections for multiple comparisons and corrections for heteroskedasticity of linear model residuals were applied.
Results. Complete data were obtained from 475 patients (62.84% women). The presented sample did not differ statistically from the original data. The vast majority of patients had missed sensor use for less than 1/7 of the duration of participation in the study and about 10 independent scans per day. The average number of self-scans remained virtually unchanged throughout the study.
The level of glycemia in the group of 18-34 years was statistically significantly lower in women: -0.61 mmol/l, p-value 0.031, 95% CI (-1.16, -0.07). In other age groups (35-64 and >65), a similar trend was not observed.
When analyzing the association of diabetes complications with other indicators, a correlation with the stage of retinopathy and average duration of hypoglycemic events was revealed (r = -0.109, p-value = 0.020), as well as an association between the % of the sensor being in an active state and the stage of retinopathy (between the preproliferative stage and the absence of retinopathy and preproliferative and non-proliferative stage – p-value 0.045 and 0.033, respectively), % of the sensor being in an active state and gender – males are characterized by less frequent use of the device: -4.94%, p-value 0.007, 95% CI (-8.56; -1.33). 
The following results were obtained according to regression models for the number of scans per day and the % of the sensor being in an active state with glycemic parameters: the number of scans increases with age by 0.029 scans per day/year, p-value 0.302, 95% CI (-0.026; 0.084), which may be clinically significant taking into account the value of the upper limit of the CI – an increase in the number of scans by 1 per day every 12 years. The number of scans per day parameter had a negative correlation with the average glucose level – r = -9.07, p-value < 0.001, 95% CI (-11.5; -6.63), with the % of measurements above the target glucose level r = -0.119, p < 0.001, 95% CI (-0.146; -0.091). % of the sensor being in the active state had a negative correlation with the logarithm of the average glucose level - r = -19.8, p-value < 0.001, 95% CI (-29.4, -10.1), with % of measurements above the target level glucose r = -0.253, p < 0.001, 95% CI (-0.365; -0.142).
Thus, more active use of the continuous glucose monitoring sensor is typical for young women, however, with age, the gender difference gradually disappears, and the number of independent sensor scans increases. More frequent use of the device provides better control of glycemic levels. Also, patients with a preproliferative stage of glucose use the sensor more often than patients with less pronounced retinal changes.

### Discussion. 
The presented study has certain limitations due to its structure: the study was conducted on the basis of only 1 center, the Moscow Regional Research Clinical Institute named after. M. F. Vladimirsky, participating patients lived only in the Moscow region. Up to 1/4 of all patients had incomplete profile data, which reduced the ability to use the data for analysis.
The results obtained on improving glycemic control are consistent with previously obtained data [5,6]. However, the key feature of this study is the improvement in glycemic parameters not only by the fact of using the sensor, but by increasing adherence to its use.
It is interesting to note that for the first time, data were obtained on some stratification in adherence to the use of the device by gender and age, which requires additional research. Additional study of the association between the stage of retinopathy and the average duration of hypoglycemic events is also required. At the same time, the greatest attention to the use of the sensor in patients with preproliferative retinopathy may be due to the patients' understanding that vision loss may follow as retinopathy progresses to a more severe stage, and the desire for more careful monitoring of their health.
The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### References
1.	Holt, R. I. G., DeVries, J. H., Hess-Fischl, A., Hirsch, I. B., Kirkman, M. S., Klupa, T., Ludwig, B., Nørgaard, K., Pettus, J., Renard, E., Skyler, J. S., Snoek, F. J., Weinstock, R. S., & Peters, A. L. (2021). The management of type 1 diabetes in adults. A consensus report by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care, 44(11), 2589–2625. https://doi.org/10.2337/dci21-0043 
2.	Grunberger, G., Sherr, J., Allende, M., Blevins, T., Bode, B., Handelsman, Y., Hellman, R., Lajara, R., Roberts, V. L., Rodbard, D., Stec, C., & Unger, J. (2021). American Association of Clinical Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline: The use of Advanced Technology in the management of persons with diabetes mellitus. Endocrine Practice, 27(6), 505–537. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eprac.2021.04.008 
3.	Oskarsson, P., Antuna, R., Geelhoed-Duijvestijn, P., Krӧger, J., Weitgasser, R., & Bolinder, J. (2017). Impact of flash glucose monitoring on hypoglycaemia in adults with type 1 diabetes managed with multiple daily injection therapy: A pre-specified subgroup analysis of the impact randomised controlled trial. Diabetologia, 61(3), 539–550. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00125-017-4527-5 
4.	Oyagüez, I., Merino-Torres, J. F., Brito, M., Bellido, V., Cardona-Hernandez, R., Gomez-Peralta, F., & Morales-Perez, F. (2020). Cost analysis of the flash monitoring system (freestyle libre 2) in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus. BMJ Open Diabetes Research &amp; Care, 8(1). https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjdrc-2020-001330 
5.	Yadegarfar, G., Anderson, S. G., Khawaja, Z., Cortes, G., Leivesley, K., Metters, A., Horne, L., Steele, T., & Heald, A. H. (2020). The Freestyle Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring System: How it has improved glycaemic control for people with type 1 diabetes in eastern Cheshire, UK. Cardiovascular Endocrinology &amp; Metabolism, 9(4), 171–176. https://doi.org/10.1097/xce.0000000000000216 The FreeStyle Libre flash glucose monitoring system: how it has improved glycaemic control for people with type 1 diabetes in Eastern Cheshire, UK
6.	Bidonde, J., Fagerlund, B. C., Frønsdal, K. B., Lund, U. H., & Robberstad, B. (2017). FreeStyle Libre Flash Glucose Self-Monitoring System: A Single-Technology Assessment. Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH).
